[Music]
Brahe much what's very magical about
very magic to me indicates you know that
area magic dealing with psychological
and mind-reading effects so unlike
traditional magic users like the power
of words linguistic deception nonverbal
communication various other techniques
to create the illusion of a sixth sense
now I'm going to show you how all how
easy it is to manipulate the human mind
once you know how and I want every
downstairs also to join in with me and
everybody here whenever you put out your
hands like this for me first of all okay
clap them together once okay reverse
your hands then follow my actions
exactly now but half the audience has
our left handle why is that okay swap
them around put your right hand up okay
now cross your hands over so your right
hand goes over
interlace your fingers like this then
make sure your right palm is outside
your left thumb that's very important
yours are the other way round so swapped
around excellent okay
extend your fingers like this for me all
right tap them together once okay now if
you did not allow me to deceive your
minds you will all be able to do this
so now you can see how easy it is for me
to manipulate human minds once you know
how
now I remember when I was about 15 I
read a copy of Life magazine which
detailed a story about a 75 year old
blind a Russian woman who could sense
printed letters to people trying to do
it here
who could sense printed letters and even
sent scholars just by touch and she was
completely blind she could also read the
serial numbers on bills when they were
placed facedown on the hard surface
now it's fascinated but at the same time
skeptical how could somebody read using
their fingertips
you know if you actually think about it
if somebody's totally blind
a guy yesterday did a demonstration one
of the rooms where people had to close
their eyes they could just hear things
and it's a it's just a really weird
thing to try and figure out how could
somebody read using their fingertips now
earlier on as part of a TV show that
I've coming up on MTV I attempted to
give a similar demonstration of what is
now known as Second Sight so let's take
a look okay people go how are you
Catherine's Keith here I'm gonna take
you to a secret location okay
now pastor there was no way you could
see through that blind father oh don't
say my name like that no but you're okay
yes yeah there's no way you could have
seen through it
okay I'm just gonna take it off you're
okay you're okay do you want to take off
the other part of it go ahead and take
it off you're okay just a second I know
you're fine you're fine take it off
you're okay you're safe
have you ever heard of second sight now
second sight just we're by a mind
control expert can see through somebody
else's eyes I want to try that like that
[Music]
ready prison there's no way
don't say anything I'm trying to see
through your eyes
[Music]
just don't break my concentration
we were ok though
so we're nearly there only God
[Music]
oh my god I stopped that is weird
you fixed freak of nature that was no
scary thank you
by the way two days ago we were gonna
film this down to the racecourse and we
got a guy into a car and we got a camera
around the back but halfway through to
drive he told me he had I think was a
nine-millimeter or something stuck to
his leg so I stopped pretty quick and
that was it and so do you believe it's
possible to see through somebody else's
eyes that's the question now most people
here would automatically say no okay but
I want you to realize some facts I
couldn't see through the blindfold the
car was not gimmicked or tricked in any
way the girl I'd never met before
alright so I want you to just think
about it for a moment a lot of people
try to come up with a logical solution
to what just happened all right but
because your brains are not trained in
the art of deception the solution is you
come up with will 99% of the time be way
off the mark
this is because magic is all about
directing attention if for instance I
didn't want you to look at my right hand
well then I don't look at it but if I
wanted you to look at my right hand then
I look at it too you see it's very very
simple once you know how we're very
complicated in other ways now I'm gonna
give you some demonstrations up here
live right now I need two people to help
me out real quick can you come up and
let's see down at the end here can you
call so come up real quick do you mind
yeah at the end okay give them a round
of applause as they come off you might
want to use the stairs there
that's very important favor here to
realize I haven't said any hope with you
guys you don't know what's about to
happen is that greed okay and would you
mind just standing over here for a
moment your name is Nicole and okay Oh
tell them actually here's the thing
answer ANSWER Answer they're gone okay
I'll tell you what swap over positions
can you send over here this will just
make it a little bit easier okay that
was a pity I would've told moans the ace
of spades
okay a little bit closer a little bit
closer okay a little bit closer come
over tone they look really nervous up
here come in a little bit close okay now
if you believe in witchcraft at all yeah
voodoo yeah things that go bump in the
night besides his next you know okay I
want you to be just stand exactly like
this me pull up your sleeves if you
don't mind okay now what should be aware
of all the different sensations around
you because we're going to try a voodoo
experiment right now I want you be aware
of the sensations but don't say anything
until I ask you and don't open your eyes
until I ask you from this point onwards
close your eyes do not say anything do
not open them beware of the sensations
yes or no did you feel anything yes you
did feel that what did you feel how many
times did you feel it twice okay extend
your left arm out in front of you extend
your left arm okay okay keep it there
beware of the sensations don't say
anything don't open your eyes okay
did you feel anything there yes what did
you feel like a tickling sensation can
you show us where okay excellent open
your eyes I never touched you I just
touched his back and I just touched his
arm
the Voodoo experiments yeah I walk
around nightclubs all night like this
you just take a seat over here for a
second I'm gonna use you again in a
moment and can you take your seat right
over here for me if you don't mind sit
right here okay take a seat
excellent okay now I want you to do is
look directly at me okay just take a
deep breath in through your nose letting
it out through your mouth and relax
allow your eyes to close on five four
three two one close your eyes right now
okay now I'm not hypnotizing you
immediately placing your heightened
state of synchronicities there are mines
along the same lines and as you sink and
drift and float into this relaxed state
of mind I'm gonna take your left hand
and just place it up here and I want you
to hold it there just for a moment and I
only want you to allow your hand to sink
and drift and flow back to the tabletop
at the same rate and speed as you drift
and float into this relaxed state of
awareness and allowed to go all the way
down to the tabletop that's it all the
way down all the way down all the way
down Unferth and further and further and
further and further and further
excellent now once you layer had the
stick firmly to the tabletop okay now
let's stay there okay now in a moment
you'll feel a certain pressure okay and
I want you to be aware of the pressure
just be aware of the pressure and I only
want you to allow your hand to float
slowly back up from the tabletop as you
feel the pressure release but only when
you feel the pressure at least you
understand just answer yes no do you
understand yeah
hold it right there okay and only when
you feel the pressure go back I want you
to lay your hand to slowly drift back to
the tabletop but only when you feel the
pressure
okay that was wonderfully done let's try
it again
excellent now that you've got the idea
let's try something more interesting now
to stick firmly to tabletop keep your
eyes closed
can you stand up okay just stand stage
forward I want you to point directly at
his forehead okay imagine the connection
between you and him only when you want
the pressure to be released make an
opera gesture like this but only when
you want the pressure to be released you
can wait as long as you want but only
when you want the press release
okay let's try it again okay no matter
the connection okay point directly this
far it only when you want to press
release we'll try it again okay work
that time excellent
only hold it there hold it there both do
you hold it there only when you want the
pressure to go back make it downward
gesture you can wait as long as you want
you did it pretty quickly what went down
okay then one should beware that in
moments when I snap my fingers your eyes
will open again it's okay to remember to
forget or forget to remember what
happened most people ask you what the
hell just happened up here but it's okay
that even though you're not hypnotized
you will forget everything that happened
on five four three two one open your
eyes wide awake give them a round of
applause okay I once saw a film called
the gods are crazy
Zen be here seen that film yeah do you
remember when they threw the coke bottle
out of the airplane and it landed on the
ground and it didn't break see that's
because coke bottles are so low it's
nearly impossible to break a coke bottle
when it's right good job she's not
taking any chances
you see psychokinesis is the paranormal
influence of the mind on physical events
and processes for some magicians are
mentalists sometimes the spoon will bend
their melt sometimes it will not
sometimes the object will slide across
the table sometimes or not it depends on
how much energy you have that day so on
and so forth we're gonna try and
experiment in psychokinesis right now
come right over here next to me make
sense now have a look at the coke bottle
make sure it is solid there's only one
hole it's a normal coke ball you can
crack it against the table if you want
be careful even though it's solid I'm
standing away okay I want you to pinch
right here with two fingers in your
thumb excellent now I've got a shard of
glass here okay I want you to examine
the Charter class be careful because it
is sharp just hold onto it for a moment
now hold it out here I want you to
imagine right now a broken relationship
for many years ago and I want you to
imagine all the negative energy from
that broken relationship from that guy
being a
part that inter broken piece of glass
which will represent him okay but I want
you to take this very seriously stare at
the glass ignore everybody right here in
a moment you'll feel a certain sensation
okay and when you feel that sensation I
want you to drop the piece of glass into
the bottle think of that guy that BA and
that guy trying to be good here
okay and when you feel the sensation it
might take a while
drop it into the glass
okay drop it in now imagine all that
negative energy in there imagine his
name and imagine him inside the glass
and I want you to release that negative
energy by shaking it from side to side
concept that was a lot of negative
energy built up from there
I also want you to think of his name
look at me think of his name you got his
name okay think of it how many letters
in title of his name think how many
letters in the title there's five
letters in the title you didn't react
that's those four letters in the title
think of one of the letters in the title
think of when the letters is a K in his
name there is a cait see the way I knew
that because my name starts with a K
also but his name doesn't start with AK
8 starts with a name tell Mike I said
hello the next time you see you was that
his name okay
thank you
I thought one more thing to share with
you right now actually Chris I was going
to pick you for this but instead of
picking you can you hop up here and pick
a victim for this next experiment it
should be a male victim that's the only
thing oh okay I was gonna use you for
this but I decided I might want to come
back another year well to reward him for
saying Eureka and for selecting Michael
Messner come and talk to us Steve
Jurvetson okay Steve I want you to take
a seat right behind here excellent now
Steve oh you can check underneath go
ahead
I have no fancy assistants underneath
there they just they insisted because I
was a magician put a nice black
tablecloth on there you go okay I've got
four wooden planes here Steve one two
three and four
now they're all the exact same except
this one obviously has a stainless steel
spike sticking out of it I want you to
examine it make sure it's solid happy
yeah okay now Steve I'm gonna stand in
front of the table okay when I stand in
front of the table I want you to put the
cups on the clint's like this and Auntie
order you want and then mix them all up
so nobody has any idea where the spike
is all right known on the audience and
just to help you block them from view so
nobody can see what you're doing
I'll also look away so go ahead and mix
them up now okay and tell me when you're
done
you don't almost almost oh okay you're
making sure that's well-hidden now Oh
we've we've got one here we've got one
here so all right we'll leave them like
that
I'm gonna have the last laugh though and
now Steve you know where the spike is
but nobody else does correct
but I don't want you to know either so
swim around on your chair they'll keep
an eye on me to make sure I don't do
anything funny
no stay around okay now Steve look back
so now you don't know where the spike is
and I don't know where it is either
okay now is there anybody to see through
this blindfold put this on no I'm just
is there any way to see through it
no you can't see through it excellent
okay now I'm gonna put on the blindfold
don't stack them up okay I'll give give
them an extra mix up don't move the cops
because I don't want anybody serie
Spikers but give the plants next to mix
up and then line them up like this all
right I'll put the blindfold on give
them an extra mix up no messing around
this time okay go ahead mix them up my
hand is that life here so at risk tell
me when you're done done okay where are
you put on your hand
your right hand does anybody know okay
tell me when I'm over a cop I'm over a
cop right now now Steve do you think
it's here yes or no I told you I'd have
the last laugh
I don't think no good decision
[Applause]
now if I go this way is there another
cup over here oh no no no he asked me
click your left hand absolutely not
now if I go this way is another cup
there's a cuppa okay 10 right the stop
okay there yep okay do you think it's
here yes or no this is your decision not
mine okay give me a both hands now put
them on both cups do you think the spike
is under your left hand or under your
right hand neither neither oh okay but
if you were to yes you think it's on
your right hand remember you made all
the decisions all along psychologists
figure this out have a look
[Applause]
if anybody wants to see some slight AHA
and later on I'll be outside thank you
like you
you